Welcome back everyone in this lecture.
We're going to talk about dictionaries on dictionaries are ordered mappings for storing objects.
Previously we saw how store objects in an ordered sequence dictionaries instead are going to use a key
value pair system.
Basically this key value pair allows users to quickly grab objects without needing to own index location
beforehand.
The actual syntax is that dictionaries use curly braces and colons to signify the keys and their associated
values.
So here we have an example of a python dictionary with one key value pair key one in value one and then
another key value pair key to add value to.
So we have curly braces on the outside and then each individual key value pair.
We have a string key colon and then its corresponding value and its value doesn't need to be a string.
It could be a number a list something else.
Boolean.
Lots of other options there and it can even be another dictionary.
But the main idea here is if I'm looking for value one then all I need to do is pass in Q1 and will
bring me back that value 1.
Or if I'm looking for a value to I can pasand key 2 and I'll bring it back value to and we're actually
coding this out and the Adam text editor will see some examples that kind of clarify the use cases for
a dictionary but often beginners have the question while why how is this different than a list.
Why should I choose a list and when should I choose a dictionary.
That's often a point of confusion.
The basic idea here is that dictionaries those objects are values are retrieved by the key name.
So if I'm interested in value one all I need to know is that its associated key is key one unlike a
list where I would have had to have known the index location beforehand.
Now the tradeoff here is that because the objects are retrieved by a key name that means there's no
real order to them so you can't really sort a dictionary.
It's instead the key value pair mappings.
Now list those objects are retrieved by location.
And what's nice about that is that they can be indexed or sliced because it's an ordered sequence.
The con there is that if you actually want to grab something an individual element from the list you
would need to know its actual index location beforehand.
So essentially that's a tradeoff.
We're going to see some more examples of this idea of dictionaries and the key value pair mapping right
now by hopping over to the text editor and working through some examples.
So let's head over to that now.
All right what I'm going to start off with is just creating a very simple dictionary.
So we'll say D is the variable and we're going to set that equal to key one and value 1 and the other
key is going to be key to and then value 2.
So then let's print out the dictionary and see what that looks like.
There we go so we have one that value 1 and key to value 2.
Now let's imagine I wanted to actually grab a corresponding key value pair.
What I can do is the following.
I can say the square brackets.
But now instead of passing an index location like it would for a list or a string I pass in the Keitt.
So I'll say key one and then let's print the that response.
Will say print out d of key one save that change.
Run this again and now I see value 1 is the output as well as that dictionary from before.
So that's the way you can grab values.
Now let's go ahead and show you a more realistic example.
Let's say I have a list called salaries or excuse me a dictionary called salaries.
So this is a really great idea for storing information if a dictionary instead of a list.
So I'm going to create a salary's dictionary and the key is going to be someone's name and then the
actual value is going to be how much their salary is let's say we'll do it by our.
So John earns $20 an hour.
Notice here I'm just passing in a number and then we'll say Sally earns $30 an hour and let's say Sammy
he's going to earn $15 an hour.
And now the question arises Well how much does John earn per hour how much does Sammy earn per hour.
Now it's really readable because all I need to do is say salaries and then just pass in the name of
whose salary I'm interested in.
So then I can say Sallie and then if I just print this out so print out salaries for Sallie and let
me delete these lines right here I run this again and then I get back 30.
So this is a really good use case for what you would want to use a dictionary for.
You have a key value pairing and what you're going to be interested in is looking up these keys and
then getting back their corresponding values something like this.
When it really makes sense for a list because then that would require you to memorize every single pair
location and it would really make sense because then you'd be mixing in names and numbers.
So instead of using a dictionary like this allows you to easily look things up based off the key.
In this case the key is quite intuitive.
It's just that person's first name and then the value here is their salaries.
Now let's imagine we just hired a new employee and we want to add them to the salaries dictionary that
we do that is you call salaries and then you reference the key as if it already existed there.
So let's say we just hired Cindy and then you set it equal to whatever the corresponding value was so
let's say he's the CEO.
So she's going to get paid $100 an hour and then just to check that it's working.
Instead of asking for salaries or Sally's salary I'm going to ask for Cynthy's save that run.
And then I get back 100.
So here what I'm doing and just corresponding the Sindhi key with the value of 100.
So that's how you can add values and key value pairs to an existing dictionary if you ever want to adjust
a value pair.
Let's say John got a raise then you need to do is say salaries call the existing He says John and let's
give them a raise.
So there's two ways of doing this.
One is I could just set equal to a new value saying let's say John's new salary is 30 or I can actually
reference the old value I could say.
OK.
Grab John's old salary value add that add let's say 42 it so got a big raise there.
Let's check if that worked.
So I'm going to create that dictionary of salaries and then I'm going to print John's salary right after
we make it so we should see 20.
And then we're going to leave this in the line here that I'm going to give him a raise.
And then it prints his salary again.
So we should see 20 and then 60 when I run this.
And there it is 20 and then 60.
So it starts off with $20.
But then I adjust it to his existing salary plus 40 something else I could just set it straight to 40.
And then if I run if I were to run this again that I would see 20 and 40.
OK so that's how you can add new key value pairs as well as just old key value pairs.
Something else you can do which is not super common but it is available to you is passen things like
dictionaries or lists as values.
So for example let's say we want this to be defined as people instead.
So we have people let's say we have John and Sally let's just delete samea off of this and they can
have multiple aspects linked to them by passing and a list as that value pair.
So say John and we can give him some numbers like 1 2 3 and then we can say OK salary or excuse me Sally
is going to have some other metrics like 40 10 and 30.
Right now these numbers are just made out they don't really represent anything.
I just want to show you they can actually link a list to this value or this keep pair so that I could
say OK people John and let's print that out.
Print people John print that and now and I run this I get back the list.
One two three which means I can then do something like this.
I could say Sally and then let's grab that index with zero from this list so I can actually make a stack
call here.
So keep in mind just Pozieres video and think what you should see as the output.
If I ask for people Sally 0.
OK hopefully understood it's going to be 40 because when I run this what's happening is we first grab
this list which is people Salli and then we're going to grab in the first item of this list.
Zero.
Again these numbers don't really represent anything.
They're just here for demonstration purposes.
And if you really want you can also have a nested dictionary.
So this can be a further dictionary.
So you could say something like salary 10 and then something like age 30 and let's go ahead and delete
this.
So this is now a nested dictionary for John.
So then I could say people John and then go again and ask for age and then print that out.
And this is starting to look almost like Jaison if you're familiar with that so I can print this and
I get back 30.
So this is an example of a nested dictionary.
Again calling John and then getting back that dictionary.
So you can always break this down by steps.
Let's cut out age there.
So if I call people John I get back to this dictionary and then off of that dictionary I can then call
off more keys so I could say something like salary save that run this again and then I get back $10
per hour as his salary.
Last thing I want to mention is that there's a few useful pairs or useful method calls you can call
for.
So let me show you that and create a very simple dictionary right now.
We'll say K-1 V-1.
So say K-1 10 K-2 has a value of 20 and we'll say K3 has a value of 30.
And if I print out the dictionary I'll see everything.
So I see this whole dictionary.
But I can also have methods for this.
So if I just want the keys of a dictionary I can call keys open close print sees and or turnback the
dictionary keys if I want just the values of a dictionary.
I can call it the values run that and then I get back the values and if I want the actual key value
pairs I can call items and I'll return back this list object of these tuple key value pairs and we're
going to talk about tuples in the very next lecture.
So keep that in mind.
OK so those are keys values and items which are kind of convenient when you want to iterate through
a dictionary and we'll talk about that when we talk about control flow and for loops.
But right now an idea should be understanding the syntax how to add new items or key value pairs to
a dictionary and then those key methods.
All right if you have any questions feel free to post the Q&A forums.
We'll see at the next lecture.